One way to structure participation among governments is for them to form an autonomus council under an existing mutually agreeable non-profit with sufficient connection to the task.  Below is an example of such an entity from the ID Commons non-profit bylaws.  The purpose of this type of entity is to ensure the body has enough autonomy to make it's own decisions about substantive matters under it's scope and to build in the legal right for the entity to "spin off" and form an independent non-profit corporation if/when it outgrows the need for incubation.  

"**6.1.1.  Autonomous Councils**

An Autonomous Council is a type of Working Group that is organized structurally like a stand-alone legal entity.  A working group that operates as an Autonomous Council adheres to the following governance rules:  The Autonomous Council, in addition to it's charter, promulgates a set of bylaws, defining, at minimum, it's governance structure, decision making including voting procedures and it's internal operations.  An Autonomous Council may set up an IC authorized bank account and may enter into contracts and authorize the disbursement of monies from it’s IC authorized bank account, provided such accounts and contracts are in all respects consistent with the purposes and policies of the IC and in accordance with the governance, accounting and management rules of that Council.  An Autonomous Council may create lesser included organizational groups, such as working groups, task forces, advisory groups, user groups, or other groups, and may allocate funding to any or all such groups from it’s IC authorized bank account, provided each such group is consistent with the purposes and policies of the IC and in accordance with the governance, accounting and management rules of that Council.  An Autonomous Council may choose to terminate it’s existence, reverting it’s unexpended funds to the general fund of the IC, or to graduate by spinning itself off as a new separate legal entity or by merging itself into a pre-existing separate legal entity and transferring it’s assets accordingly.  Such graduation and asset transfer must be consistent with the purposes and policies of the IC and in accordance with the governance, accounting and management rules of that Council and IC Steward Council.  A precondition of IC Steward Council approval for graduation of an Autonomous Council is that all tax, contractual and other obligations owed by or arising out of the Autonomous Council have been discharged or have otherwise been addressed such as by assignment to the satisfaction of and approval by the IC Steward Council.  Any approvals that are required of the IC Steward Council under this section shall not be unreasonably withheld."


**More information on this approach is available at:**
* [http://www.idcommons.org/autonomous-councils](http://www.idcommons.org/autonomous-councils)
* [http://ecitizen.mit.edu/autonomous-council](http://ecitizen.mit.edu/autonomous-council)

